# JAVA-educational-institution-project
Console and MVC

The theme of the project is educational-institution.

In the Console project, the user can input a limited number of students, teachers, subjects and exams. There is a new method for each input and the method can take as a parameter an List (example ArrayList). The user must enter the required data type and if he doesn't, the program will ask him again(a do while loop is used for that). After all the input data is entered, a new object is created and the constructor is called. All objects are saved in List-s (mostly the ArrayList is used).  There are classes created that represent checked exceptions that are thrown so that the program doesn't crash, instead it continues working and gives out a message if an exception occurred. The interface "Visokoskolska" is used to allow classes that do not inherit from each other to implement a common group methods(in this case the methods are "odrediProsjekOcjenaNaIspitima" and "filtrirajIspitePoStudentu". Lambda expressions are used to measure how fast is a for loop in comparison to a lambda stream (the for loop is faster if there are less objects to go through). The code is described using the Javadoc documentation.

The project based on the MVC architecture uses an API called JavaFX. Controller classes are used because they allow connecting the graphical interface elements to the Java program code. Every controller class has a "initialize" method marked with “@FXML” annotation that contains all the logic needed to initialize basic settings of elements on the graphical interface. The component layout organizers that are used in this project are borderpane and gridpane. For the design of the JavaFX application interfaces is Scene Builder used. The user can add data and has the option to show them in columns. Open source database H2 is used for retrieving data about certain articles or users and also the user input is stored in the database. The connection to the databse is made by using a properties file that contains an URL, username and password. The project also uses threads to show how the program can parallel do tasks by using multiple processor cores. With this the threads are sharing resources like memory or files and enable better performance.
